We have our form here.
And these inputs are not exactly what
you would call inspiring, right?
So it'd be great if we had some
sort of consistent styling amongst
all of our inputs here.
Now, we could go and
style them individually.
You might imagine that that
would look kinda gross, right?
So let's not do that.
Let's lean into something
called a Tailwind plugin, so
you can go get a consistent design style.
So this is kinda getting more
into towards Bootstrap and and
stuff like that that have more
of a design system feel to them.
You can get some of those things
with Tailwind as well via plugins.
So go ahead and
open your terminal here and
say npm install D, capital D that is,
tailwindcss/forms, and we want 0.5.3,
so @ttailwindcss/forms@0.5.3.
Okay, then head back over
to your tailwind.config,
and plugins here,
you're just gonna put require,
@tailwindcss/forms, like that.
This will bring in all
the necessary stuff that we need.
And this will allow us
to use tailwindcss/form.
So it's actually kind of just
default styles for our form.
So actually now if you go look and,
I need to start my server again,
npm run dev, and refresh the page,
you can see here, getting closer, right?
It looks bigger,
it's got a nice down arrow to it.
We're getting closer to this looking nice.
So head back over to your application,
go to searchParams,
and then now we need to
do just a few things.
So the first thing that we wanna do is
notice that our location here isn't
getting any style whatsoever.
That's because the way that
Tailwind CSS is doing its selectors,
it's looking for a type and
not necessarily an input.
So you can see here on my location,
I don't have a type on here.
That's because if an input doesn't have
a type, it's implied a text input.
We just need to be explicit about it,
so say type = "text".
And you'll see right away,
this already gets some style.
That's because I was looking for
the type = text.
Okay, now on all of our selects and
inputs,, I want you to add this.
I want you to add className = "width
= 60 margin bottom-5 block".
And you can see here,
this looks already a lot nicer.
Go ahead and grab this className.
Put it on the select here, and
put it on the select here.
Already looking significantly better,
right?
And this actually already has some nice,
grayed out styles as well.
So actually, we don't really need
to be do much more than that.
I'm gonna show you just so you know,
if you wanna have different styles for
disabled, because if
you remember correctly,
the select when you have nothing in it,
so right now, it's disabled.
But you can kinda see, right,
it's a little grayed out.
It's probably hard to see on that screen,
but let's just go ahead and
make it even more obvious
that it's disabled.
So on the breed selector,
you can put disabled: opacity-50.
This will make it 50% see through,
so it look really grayed out.
And you can see there, it looks really
grayed out now whenever it's disabled.
If I do bird now,
you can see that now it's enabled again.
So we saw that with hover, but that works
with disabled, it works with focus,
it works with any one of those kinds
of modifiers that you would see in CSS.
Okay, let's round it up by making
our button look useful here.
So on our button, say,
ClassName= width-60,
sorry, wrong one,
rounded px-6 py-2 color
text-white hover: opacity-50,
Border-none And
then background, orange-500.
I need color,
trying to remember what that was for.
I don't think so.
All right, yeah,
you don't need that color,
I don't know why I have that in my notes.
Anyway, now you can see I have a nice
little orange Submit button there
Cool, any questions about styling forms or
disabled states or
anything like that, or plugins?
You can make your own plugins, by the way.
If you have your own style system and
you're sharing it amongst all various
different people, by all means,
plugins is the great way to do that.